# WordPress MySQL deployed by Jenkins
Hello, Here we are using `Ubuntu 20.04.3 LTS` OS as a base machine.  

## Overview
* Write 2 separate helm charts for WordPress and MySQL.
* Install Jenkins in minikube with the help of helm repo.
* Deploy WordPress and MySQL charts in minikube through Jenkins Pipeline.

## Prerequisites
* Install Kubernetes
* Install Helm

## Process
We are doing this deployment in a different namespace called `demo`.   
For creating a new namespace you can use this command.
```bash
kubectl create namespace demo
``` 
> For all below steps we are using the same namespace

### Step 1: Writing helm chart 

### Step 2: Install Jenkins in minikube Jenkins 
1. You can refer to [official documents for Jenkins installation](https://github.com/jenkinsci/helm-charts/blob/main/charts/jenkins/README.md)
and skip `step 2: Install Jenkins in minikube Jenkins` or you can continue with us.
2. Get Repo Info
```bash
helm repo add jenkins https://charts.jenkins.io
helm repo update
```
3. Install Chart
```bash
# Helm 3
helm install -n demo helm-jenkins2 jenkins/jenkins
```
4. Wait for the container to start  
```bash
kubectl get pods -namespace demo
```
> expected Output
```output
NAME              READY   STATUS    RESTARTS       AGE
helm-jenkins-0    o/2     Running   0              10m
```
>It will take 5-10 min according to your machine performance, repeat 4th command, and until the addition of all containers in the pool. 
```output
NAME              READY   STATUS    RESTARTS       AGE
helm-jenkins-0    2/2     Running   0              10m
```
5. Generate a password for admin user
```bash
  kubectl exec --namespace demo -it svc/helm-jenkins -c jenkins -- /bin/cat /run/secrets/chart-admin-password && echo
```
6. For creating the link between minikube and local machine.
```bash
kubectl --namespace demo port-forward svc/helm-jenkins 8080:8080
```
7. Go to the link [http://127.0.0.1:8080](http://127.0.0.1:8080) and log in with the username -> `admin` and password generated by the last-second command. (5th step)

### Step 3: Creating a new job in Jenkins

#### For running MySQL and WordPress in a single pipeline
1. First go to the new item and create a new pipeline job with any name. (recommended name `demo`)  
2. Then go in the last in the pipeline section there in Definition select `Pipeline script for SCM`.  
3. In SCM select `git` and in `Repository URL` past [https://github.com/JayAgrawalgit/wordpress-mysql-deploy-by-jenkins.git](https://github.com/JayAgrawalgit/wordpress-mysql-deploy-by-jenkins.git) or HTTPS link of this repo which is present in the top green code button.  
4. In `Branches to build` enter `*/main`.  
5. In `Script Path` enter `Jenkinsfile`.  
6. `Apply` and `Save`.  
7. Now Build the Project

#### For running MySQL and WordPress in 2 different pipelines.  
1. First go to the new item and create a new pipeline job with any name. (recommended name `MySQL-pipeline`)  
2. Then go in the last in the pipeline section there in Definition select `Pipeline script for SCM`.  
3. In SCM select `git` and in `Repository URL` past [https://github.com/JayAgrawalgit/wordpress-mysql-deploy-by-jenkins.git](https://github.com/JayAgrawalgit/wordpress-mysql-deploy-by-jenkins.git) or HTTPS link of this repo which is present in the top green code button.  
4. In `Branches to build` enter `*/main`.  
5. In `Script Path` enter `Jenkinsfile1` for MySQL.  
6. `Apply` and `Save`.  
> Note: As e need to perform individual job run for both MySQL and WordPress we need to take care of that especially 
11. For running the job individual In `Script Path` enter `Jenkinsfile2` for WordPress, rest of the procedure as above  
12. `Apply` and `Save`.  
13. Now Build the Project name `MySQL-pipeline` and if It will run `SUCCESS` then build the project with the name `WordPress-pipeline`.

### If you encountered the below error in running the pipeline: 
1. `failed to query with labels: secrets are forbidden: User "system:serviceaccount:demo:default" cannot list resource "secrets" in API group "" in the namespace "demo"`  
then run 
> Given command is `Strictly not recommended in production environment`, This is only a work around.  
```bash
kubectl create clusterrolebinding permissive-binding --clusterrole=cluster-admin --user=admin --user=kubelet --group=system:serviceaccounts:demo
```
For more information [kubernetes](http://kubernetes.io/) [Jenkins](https://jenkins.io/)

#### Keep Learning
